and we are taking you live to the US
state department now where they're
holding a press conference let's listen
in protected sites uh but it is
concerning that after Israel had
conducted an operation earlier in this
campaign to clear alifa that alifa again
was apparently infiltrated by Hamas
Fighters and so two things about that
one look obviously we um
uh it would be great if Hamas would stop
hiding behind civilians and stop uh
hiding inside civilian infrastructure
including hospitals but two it points
out what we have been saying all along
which is the need for Israel to have a
sustainable long-term strategy when it
comes to Gaza uh that it's not enough to
just clear certain neighborhoods or
hospitals or any other uh Geographic
areas or buildings of of Hamas they need
to have a long-term sustainable strategy
that is not just a security strategy but
also a political strategy if they really
want to uh secure the future of Israel
against the terrorist threat that has so
to date emanated from Gaza right so you
don't have any any comment
on what you've seen from the aftermath
of the two
we operation against the hospital not
beyond what I just and then when you
should say and this will be it for me um
when you say um Israel needs a
sustainable long-term strategy for Gaza
have you seen one yet from them uh we
have not yet seen one no and that's what
we have been in conversation with him
about but presumably the meeting today
is just about Rafa right it's just about
it's just about Rafa and the and the
point I mean a sustainable long-term
strategy means something Beyond a
military strategy it
means a political path as well so
political path to two states that that
is that is our preferred that is our
preferred policy but you a political
path of but have you but have you seen
one from the Israelis that is even that
is even short of at this point we have
not known though all right thank you
just follow on elifa um Israel has given
some numbers 200 militants uh have been
killed 900 suspected militants detained
of whom some 500 have been identified as
Somas does the United States have any
assessment that these numbers are
correct we don't have an independent
assessment no do you have an assessment
M on how many civilians around that
operation have been killed we do not
okay um moving on to this strike this
suspected Israeli strike in Damascus do
you have anything to say on this I don't
obviously just happened in the the hour
or two before I came out here we are in
conversations with Partners in the
region Gathering more uh information but
uh at this point don't have a
confirmation either of the Target or the
responsible party do you know if the
United States was given a heads up by
Israel about this again we are gathering
information I don't have anything about
the strike right now I don't have
anything beyond that to offer okay do
you have any concerns that this might
sort of escalate tensions which are
already high so and way endanger the
hostage talk anyway so I don't want to
before we have gathered information
about what exactly this was I don't want
to speak to it uh specifically but of
course we are always uh concerned about
um uh about anything that would be
escalatory or um cause an increase in
conflict in the region has been one of
the goals of this Administration since
October 7th to keep the conflict from
spreading recognizing that Israel has
the right to defend itself from
adversaries that are sworn to its
destruction um but with respect to the
hostage talks there's no reason why this
incident should have any impact on on
the hostage talks uh we have long
believed it is uh in the interest uh of
everyone to see these hostage talks
succeed because you would not just see
um uh a relief to the civilian
population in Gaza that desperately
needs it uh it would enable the increase
in humanitarian assistance into Gaza and
of course it would get the hostages out
so no I I don't know I don't believe it
should have any impact on this can you
say how those talks are going I don't
have any new assessment to to offer
today okay two final things this is
about last uh this is from last week
about these um authorizations of uh
these bombs to to Israel they have been
approved a long time ago by Congress but
looks like state department has decided
to uh do the transfers last week the
week before um why was that decision
taken like recently let me I think it
would be helpful to step back and put
this in a little context um and the
context is that we the United States has
a decades long commitment to Israel's
security uh Israel is surrounded by
entities that are sworn to its
destruction not just Hamas but Iran uh
and proxy groups that Iran sponsors
Hezbollah among them who have repeatedly
talked about their desire for the
destruction of Israel We Believe Israel
has every right to defend itself against
those opponents um and we to that end
have a longstanding security
relationship with them where we provide
them more than $3 billion annually in
security assistance now the way that
that works um and I know you preface
this in in in your question but just for
for the benefit of everyone else the way
that that works is we provide them with
$3.3 billion a year in uh security
assistance they don't always draw all of
that down in any given year but they uh
come to the United States request
certain defense articles um we make
assessments about whether those are
appropriate or not we notify them to
Congress in the regular course of
business and oftentimes what happens
let's say uh just as an example this is
a fictional example let's say they
requested a 100 planes um we make a
decision we notify Congress that doesn't
mean that they take a 100 planes
tomorrow once that notification has been
given and once the approval has been
given they draw those down over time and
sometimes it takes years to fulfill
those requests and so those are those
are the types of things that I see you
wanted to to go bear bear with me I know
I I know this is long and then you'll
have the opportunity for followup um
those are the types of things that often
take years to fulfill and they were
happening before October 7th and they
have continued after October 7th so what
these about these are about uh in many
cases are about self-defense but also
deterrence and replenishment and so we
make these in the regular course of
business and what I can tell you about
them is that we follow these same
procedures uh with respect to everyone
that we do for every other country in
the world which is that we notify
Congress and in fact since October 7th
we have gone above and beyond to notify
Congress about uh these transfers there
is a statutory thresold where we are
required to to um notify them of
transfers we have been regularly
briefing the Committees to let to to
make them aware of every transfer that
that we are making so I'm going to have
to combine my questions now that you've
taken up so much time to answer I
understand I would apologized but You'
believe I'm just joking first take your
time I understand the fulfilling can
take years but are you basically saying
that the authorization of the transfer
coming in these recent weeks was a
coincidence uh so I I'm not saying it's
a coincidence that Israel has been
engaged in a military conflict and of
course when you are engaged in a
military conflict you deplete your
military stocks so there was a
request for for the additional fulfill
for the Fulfillment of particular we as
is always the case I'm not getting into
the timings of of exact requests from
here just I'll be quick it's a but this
is a process that we keep Congress fully
apprised of our relevant committees um
but but when you see these types of
requests and when they get publicly
reported you have to remember that
Israel is in an armed conflict and is is
um expending a great deal of Defense
material and some of that needs to be
replenished for Israel's long-term
security right and my final thing on
this is like secretary and a lot of
senior officials from this
Administration basically said far too
many Palestinians have been killed but
when you go and make the and we know
that the administration's policy hasn't
changed it is not conditioning weapons
to Israel but when you go and make such
an authorization of the transfer in
recent weeks even if the actual weapons
transfer has been approved years ago
don't you think that is going to damage
the weight of your word the your
credibility and basically your sincerity
and saying that part to many pal so I do
not agree with that at all we have been
very clear that we want to see Israel do
everything it can to minimize civilian
casualties we have uh made clear that
they need to do every that they need to
operate at all times in full compliance
with International humanitarian law at
the same time we are committed to
Israel's right to self-defense and this
is a long-term commitment the United
States has has made that it made before
October 7th and that continues uh uh in
it continues since October 7th so it
obviously the fight in Gaza is connected
to Israel's long-term Security in very
substantial ways I got into some of that
with with response to Matt's question um
but Israel still faces uh on in addition
to the security challenge posed with in
Gaza it still faces an Iran that is
hostile to Israel it still faces
Hezbollah on its northern border that is
hostile to Israel and says it is
committed to the destruction of Israel
and so we are going to continue to
support Israel's ability to defend
itself against those sworn enemies that
want to see it it end as a modern state
or a state at
all just to follow of a 200000 pound
bomb is is self-defense in your opinion
it is a it is a um uh so they need to
have the ability to defend themselves
against a very well-armed adversary like
I said Iran Hezbollah which has
thousands and thousands of Fighters and
quite
sophisticated uh material and quite
sophisticated weapony as we've seen them
deploy excuse me against Israel in the
last few days so yes they do need the
the the modern military equipment to
defend themselves against in Gaza before
beginning in Gaza and we have made clear
to them that when that
whatever um whatever weapon they use in
Gaza be it a bomb be it a tank round be
at anything that we expect them to use
those weapons in full compliance with
International humanitarian law and we
have set an we have had very Frank
conversations with them about the fact
that there far too many civilians have
died through their operations and that
they need to do better in taking into
account uh the need to minimize civilian
harm and we'll continue to do
that just on that point um okay took the
requests were done years ago what have
you but this time around you're
suspiciously very careful not to
publicize it um usually you do the
notifications to Congress you do a you
know statement but have this time I
understand you didn't need to do it
because I just say we did notify
Congress weze it so it is not usually
you do on on arm sales and all that you
you you publicize it so that's not true
with respect to most arm sales around
the world I know people have gotten used
to our um uh the tempo of arm sales with
respect to Ukraine but that is very a
very different situation than our arm
sales to Israel or any other country
with which we have a security
relationship because we stood it up from
nowhere right before an active War where
most of our security relationships we
don't publicize uh our ongoing sales
what we do is we notify Congress about
those sales and we have done that with
respect to these sales to to Israel um
as we do with respect to sales anywhere
in the world okay just the last question
on back on Damas uh I understand it's
it's a bit early but obviously you don't
deny there was a
strike by Israel on the Consulate in the
Annex in in the the embassy of Iran in
Damas so we've seen the strike but again
I want to uh I want to let the
consultations that we have ongoing with
Partners in the region take place uh
before we can before I comment any
further but it's definitely escalatory
that's not what I said either I said no
I'm saying that uh sure saying
that I thought it was a question I'm
asking for your reaction so J kind of
kind of that's that's good her kind of
did speak to this um I'm not going to
comment with respect to this particular
strike um because again we just need to
know more information about it before we
do and that includes drawing any
conclusions from it as a general
principle of course we were worried
about escalation we were do worried
about anything that would cause the
conflict to to expand or widen in any
way I have one on Havana
couple let me come back let me come back
to you so the room doesn't go into an
uproar s definitely thank you Matt now
you said that Hamas returned to aifa
hospital there's some 800 Fighters and
so on all these things now is that you
are you are citing the Israel narrative
or you have your own independent we
don't have our own independent
assessment but you have seen Israel
produce the names the names photographs
of known Hamas fighters who it has
killed or how many I mean you know they
showed names and Hamas fighter sh
hospital I have I have seen the
information they have publicly released
I just I know you get let me just I'm
not I'm not interrupting I'm trying to
understand
so we have seen them release I I I don't
think uh there's anyone who has caused
to dispute that yes they have uh there
were there were uh Hamas Fighters hiding
in alifa hospital again not for the
first time okay so you are certain that
the reason that Israel went into H into
AA Hospital one more time is because
Hamas Fighters were there and not you
know hundreds of civilians that have
taken Refuge there so I think it is a uh
certainly a fair inclusion given what
has been their goal since the outset of
this campaign to take the fight to Hamas
uh that is exactly what they were doing
you believe that Israel has achieved
that goal now by eliminating Hamas are
we likely to see them go back to ASA
hospital again so that is I answer that
question somewhat in response to Matt I
think there is a concern that you saw
Hamas back inside hospitals I don't know
why I don't hear more people calling on
Hamas to stop going into hospitals you
shouldn't have to clear Hamas from a
hospital once let alone twice um but yes
we do have the the the concern that uh
Hamas has been able to reestablish
itself in a hospital um that Israel had
already cleared and that points to an
ongoing challenge for Israel in the way
it conducts its operations right yeah
just bear with me a couple more uh
questions you know so but why do you
think in your opinion what value is
there strategically for Israel to burn
all the building destroy all the
equipment destroy every last tray
machine and everything in the hospital
and not keep it you know if their fight
is with the fighters why must you
destroy as they left they were you know
there was no fighting when they left
just to to burn the buildings and burn
the things and destroy everything so let
me just say why is that so why is that
okay let me just say this gets into
where uh I'm often asked to comment on
on to questions where there are
conflicting accounts right and Israel
has said that is not what they did and
we don't have ground Truth uh on on that
question Israel has said what they tried
to do is protect patients and not
operate in places when there are
patients to Evac evacuate people from
the hospital and only operate in a way
um that would impact the Hamas Fighters
that were there obviously it's an
incredibly difficult situation there
shouldn't be terrorists in a hospital at
all and so it's incredibly difficult to
operate there and and uh achieve a
legitimate counterterrorism goal in a
way that minimizes harm to the to
patients which goes back to my first
point which is Hamas shouldn't be in a
hospital at all okay well Hamas
shouldn't be as far as you know Israel
and the United States is concerned
should not be there period but I would
think s everyone could conclude I I
would think including you I would think
everyone could conclude that Hamas
should not be inside I don't think I
don't think I hope anyway that that's
not a controversial opinion well okay
but that's that's a different issue
altogether now not really not really no
it's kind of the core of what we're
talking about okay uh let me ask you
something you you you talked about the
2,000 found bombs uh and so on you think
that it is really wise to send it at
this time you know when this far in this
battle you know or this war it has only
been used in Gaza I mean I know you say
that Israel is surrounded by uh you know
people that wish it will and so on but
in fact it's surrounded by Egypt with
very good relations with Israel
surrounded by Jordan with good relations
with Israel surrounded by Syria that is
obviously involed in its own Civil War
and can't even defend it itself against
attacks as we have seen today so quite
the contrary is Israel is surrounding
Hamas and it's using these weapons to do
that and in fact I mean you know the F35
to the best of my knowledge I could be
wrong has only been used in combat
against the people of Gaza so how could
you justify sending all these weapons
when you have the most helpless people
probably on Earth you know destroyed
moving from one place to another and so
on and you send these weapons to sort of
just the job or continue the job I don't
know what logic is there in sending
those weapons so the logic is exactly
what I outlined a moment ago despite the
fact that Israel has a relation has
diplomatic relations with Egypt uh and
Jordan it does not change the fact that
Hezbollah is parked on its northern
border and is sworn to the destruction
of Israel it does not change the fact uh
that Iran uh uh no not exactly not right
on its border but well within Striking
Distance is committed to the destruction
of Israel and continues to fund proxies
committed to the destruction of Israel
so yes Israel faces incredibly s serious
threats not just from Hamas although
Hamas is clearly one as we saw on
October 7th but from other adversaries
uh that it needs uh our assistance uh to
continue to defend itself against Lastly
lastly please just one one last one if I
may are you aware of a report made or a
conversation that Israeli officers made
to an interview with har where they say
that Israel established some sort of
legionary you know killed zone line and
so on are you aware of that and they
actually kill whoever walks or moves
about in that area I I read that article
and I noted that in it the IDF says that
that that of course is not what they
have established there are of course
areas of significant combat where uh any
civilian could wander in and be the the
um unfortunately be killed either by
fire from Israel or by fire from Hamas
if you walk into an active conflict Zone
that's a possibility but I I have noted
that the ID have said they have of
course established kill zones it would
be incredibly inappropriate for anything
like that to be established and we've
not seen evidence at this point that
they have go ahead I'll come to next uh
there there's reporting that Israel
submitted a plan to the UN that would
essentially dismantle unra uh
transferring staff and funds to world
food and some other organizations have
you seen that plan do you support it uh
I have not seen that plan I can't speak
to whether somebody inside the United
States government has we continue to
support the work that unra does uh both
in Gaza and and uh uh in the broader
region we think that they play a
critical role in delivering humanitarian
assistance to people who who need it now
the United States cannot fund unra by
Statute now given the recent action by
Congress so we are exploring ways that
we can direct the humanitarian
assistance we are committed to providing
the Palestinian people through other
organizations uh and we look forward to
identifying ways to do that in
continuing to support humanitarian
assistance to Palestinian civilians um
but that does not mean that that um we
do not also support his work we want to
see it
continue uh mat today the canes passed
the law 7 to10 voting to pave the way
for the closure of all Al jazer offices
inside Israel I just wondering if you
have a comment so we support the
independent Free Press anywhere in the
world and we think the work that the
independent Free Press does is important
everywhere in the world and much of what
we know about what happened in Gaza is
because of reporters who are there doing
their jobs including reporters from Al
jazer um I'll say just with with respect
to Al jaer obviously we you know I think
it's well known that we've not always
agreed with all of alzer's coverage but
it's a media organization that we engage
with I've done interviews with Al jazer
other people from the Department have
done uh interviews with Al jazer so um
what we will continue to make clear is
that we support the work that the Free
Press does our assessment with that uh
passage of this law and previous
incidents went to our crew in Gaza that
uh this like enhanced our suspicion from
the beginning that our crews were
actually Target not by mistake or by do
you does this trle you that a media
organization becomes the target of of
the of the Israel and become part of the
Targets in this war so with respect to
targeting I mean targeting in a sense
not not through a law passed by the
Kessa but I think with respect to
potential military targeting uh Israel
has said very clearly that that's not
what they have done uh obviously that
would be incredibly inappropriate um
you've heard the secretary speak to this
that it is tragic how many journalists
have lost their life uh in this war um
because as I just spoke to a minute ago
they go they put their own at risk in
bringing us information about what's
happening inside Gaza and it's important
that we continue to get that information
and so we support the work that
journalists do in Gossip we support the
work that they do around the
world Tom go
ahead just to go back to the meeting
between us and Israeli officials why is
this happening virtually uh I will leave
it to the White House which is the
primary White House took the lead in
organizing this meeting so I'll leave it
to them but I mean there's an important
diplomatic element because we know I
mean Benjamin netan who said in press
conference yesterday that he pulled the
delegation traveling to send a message
because of the UN Security Council vote
so it will worry people that on such an
important issue and it's not a long
flight from Tel Aviv that this meeting
is not happening we have been listening
there to the US state department
spokesperson Matthew Miller who's
holding a news conference addressing uh
many issues but all to do with Israel's
war on Gaza including its Siege the
aftermath of its Siege on Al shifer
hospital and importantly the latest
attack on the Iranian Embassy building
um on the Iranian Embassy compound
rather in the Syrian Capital Damascus
listening into all of this is our White
House correspondent kimbery halit she's
live for us in Washington DC good to see
you Kimberly and uh Matthew Miller
saying that they don't have their own
information they don't have confirmation
he said of the Target or the
responsibility but they're working with
Partners in the region to find out
more that's right Not only was this a
focus of questions at the state
department briefing that has as we see
still is ongoing but also the White
House briefing that has just wrapped up
with the press secretary Karan
jeanpierre uh this is something that was
developing as that White House briefing
was uh ongoing and as a result the press
secretary was unable to comment but did
say that the US President Joe Biden was
aware he had been briefed about the
missile attack on the Iranian consulate
compound and that the team was looking
into it and this is something that has
been confirmed by Matthew Miller the
spokesperson for the US state department
so uh from the standpoint of the Biden
Administration they are keenly aware of
what has taken place and are keenly
aware of the r R ifications of this
attack what you have heard there from
Matthew Miller is of course when they
talk about ramifications they are
concerned about a broader escalation
this is something that the Biden
Administration has been concerned about
Israel's war on Gaza for some time uh
we've seen this with regard to spillage
into Lebanon when there have been
concerns about Israel looking for Hamas
Fighters into Lebanon and is certainly
going to be concerns about uh any sort
of uh Iranian proxies and sort of
Israel's uh waging its war on Iranian
proxies Beyond and in the broader Middle
East and so this is something that the
Biden Administration is certainly
looking into and its concern with regard
to the fact that we know with this
missile attack there have been three
senior irgc generals that have been
killed uh the concern now of course when
we've seen these kind of attacks that
there is always retaliation and what
that might look like could it be
retaliation on US forces could it be
retaliation on forces in US forces in
Syria in Iraq uh that is the big
question for the United States right now
and also will this look like uh an
intensification of missiles fired
towards Israel by uh Iran and its
proxies those are the big concerns for
the United States so uh the United
States again uh as the story is
developing looking at how this will play
out in terms of how this could broaden
something that has been a major concern
for the Biden Administration since the
uh Israel's war on Gaza began in mid
October kimbery thank you very much for
that that's our White House
correspondent kimbery hit live in
Washington DC